[Music]
if you ever do a search on Google would
you rather see a 5-year-old result or a
result that's from two weeks
ago we used to blog 10 plus blog posts a
day it's now shifted to our write a blog
post once a
week when we're focusing on just new
content what we're finding is the new
content will get traffic but the old
content was starting to lose traffic
this is Neil
Patel helping you succeed through online
marketing all right in this episode
we're going to talk about one of the
biggest things that would drive you more
SEO traffic that is not necessarily the
sexiest thing but it's around updating
your content and more specifically how
often you should update your content so
Neil do you want to kick it off talking
about why people should even think about
and what type of results you've got and
how often you're doing it because you
have a lot of data here yeah sure so if
you ever do a Google search what you'll
find is you'll typically see Wikipedia
on the first page and the the reason you
see Wikipedia on the first page is not
because it's the end all be all resource
on you know a specific topic a lot of
times they do have amazing content but
what Wikipedia does extremely well is
their content is continually fresh and
updated so just ask yourself a question
if you ever do a search on Google would
you rather see a five-year-old result or
a one-year-old result or a result that's
from two weeks ago you typically will
want to see the two week old result
because it's going to be more up to date
what we've shifted to is we used to blog
you know team and I at one point during
our Peak 10 plus blog posts a day right
that's a ton of content on digital
marketing it's now shifted to I'll write
a blog post once a week so you're
talking about four to five blog posts a
month depending on how many weeks in
that particular month but on the flip
side my team will up update three to
like six or seven blog posts a day at
least on the weekdays and that's a lot
of content to be updated so why did we
shift the strategy from Contin pushing
out new content to focus on updating our
existing content what we found is by
updating our existing content we
generated more and more traffic and to
give you idea writing new content was
great but we really saw uptick in
traffic and rankings by just updating it
was more efficient higher Roi and when
we're focusing on just new content what
we're finding is the new content would
get traffic but the old content was
starting to lose traffic and we made the
shift into just realizing that hey we
need a team dedicated to just updating
old pieces of content there's not an
exact number of how often you should
update it we tried everything from do we
update it once a year to twice a year to
once a quarter and we went to the
extreme and some piece of content we
didn't update just monthly some of it we
updated a weekly and what we found the
ideal amount to update our content is
actually based on Google search console
so you log into Google search console
and you can compare your articles from
you know or your your traffic by Page
you know current month over the last
three months or current month over the
same time period over uh you know a year
ago and we do both of those to figure
out are articles decreasing or
increasing in traffic the ones that are
decreasing whether it's over a
three-month period or a one-year period
it doesn't matter um like if it's
showing that over year over year we had
growth but in the last three months that
article had a decline because you know
from a year ago you know um let's call
it let's say you wrote article a year
ago and then six months later that
article like quadruples in traffic and
then three months after that it
increases by another double and then
fast forward to today it goes down by
like 20% when you compare it from a year
ago you're still up in traffic but you
know compared to three months ago you're
down and what we do is we'll look at
both time ranges and we look at whatever
is going down in either time range we
start adjusting it and updating it and
and that's real the real metric we use
to figure out what content to update um
because some just don't need updating as
often and that's allowed us to grow our
traffic much more and collect the right
type of leads let me let me show you
something right now with Forbes so most
people don't know this but Forbes is
more or less an affiliate website and
you can see in like 2021 or so they're
publishing in the in the light blue that
means it's it's new content and the dark
blue that means it's been republished so
you can see in 2021 they published
22,000 new pages and then you can see
we're going into 2023 it's like they're
spending a lot more time updating now
than they are creating new content
they're still creating a lot of new
content don't get me wrong because
they're publisher first and foremost but
they're leveraging the power of the
domain Authority and that's what they do
because they know they they understand
which Pages actually make money for them
the game is to to spend more time
updating and so they hire a lot of
people just to focus on updating these
are full-time salaries just to focus on
updating right yeah look updating is the
best thing if you use a strategy I'm
talking about I think you can do
exceptionally well um it's just
something for some reason a lot of
people don't focus on and if they did
focus on it um they would get more
traffic it's not always about just
creating new content figure out how to
update your existing content and I don't
know why people have that mentality of
like oh I just got to keep writing new
content and I'm like I don't think you
really need to continue write new
content now if you have any questions
leave a comment below I'm here to answer
and help you out if you enjoy the video
like it share tell people about it thank
you very much